Siddharth Bhaskaran  
7660 Beverly Blvd Apt 231, Los Angeles CA 90036 
310-343-9671 | siddharth99.ram@gmail.com 
EDUCATION 
University of California-Santa Barbara       
Bachelor of Arts, Economics        
• Cumulative GPA 3.66 
Santa Barbara, CA 
June 2020 
• Relevant Coursework: Econometrics, Statistics, Financial Management, Intro to Data Science, Game 
Theory, Linear Algebra, Intro to Programming: Python, College Writing, Calculus 
• Research Assistant to Dr. Kelly Bedard (January 2020 - April 2020) 
• 1st place winner, UCSB Economics Data Hack (October 2019) 
EXPERIENCE 
M Science               
Product Manager, Systematic Data        
New York, NY 
April 2023-Present 
• Manage the KPI API product, involving defining the overall product strategy, gathering client feedback, 
building the product roadmap, prioritizing the backlog, etc. 
• Collaborated with engineering to define and launch new API schema, allowing clients to leverage 
additional metadata endpoints and increasing interoperability with industry standard datasets, directly 
increasing product ARR by ~80%. 
• Built ML anomaly detection and OCR/LLM based QA to improve accuracy of the product, reducing 
annual error rate from over 2% to ~0%. 
• Launched numerous product enhancements targeted at improving data reliability, methodology, 
ingestion and product utility. 
• Worked with sales and marketing leadership to develop GTM strategy for systematic data offering, 
resulting in an exponential increase in new business deals on the product. 
Product Strategy Associate 
• Led the team developing the packaging and pricing model, collaborating cross-functionally with data 
science, sales and investment research to build a data-driven model and establishing a pricing desk, 
resulting in a ~35% increase in ARR in the first quarter following the rollout of the model. 
• Conceptualized, built and led adoption of an internal Salesforce product to act as the master data system 
for all product metadata, acting as a semantic layer for AI products, automating product entitlements, 
powering the customer portal and enabling product level unit economics and analytics. 
• Developed product analytics and measurement apparatus, creating north star metrics, establishing 
standardized methodology and sources of truth, developing data pipelines and governance in Databricks 
UC and building Dashboards for key executive stakeholders. 
• Leveraged analysis to provide strategic insights to the executive management team, helping guide 
company strategy and enabling data driven decision making. 
Stealth Startup              
Fractional Product Manager (Part-Time)       
Remote 
March 2025-November 2025 
• Product Manager for B2B2C personal finance and literacy tool, leading product discovery, identifying 
the ICP and building key user personas, establishing the product strategy and creating the product 
roadmap, resulting in the creation of the MVP and a clear vision for the future of the product. 
• Leveraged AI Prototyping tools such as Bolt and Lovable to develop wireframes to guide development. 
• Established and evangelized project management best practices, setting up Agile workflow, running 
product increments, pushing for CI/CD and enabling the team with tooling. 
• Worked with founder on pitch materials, monetization strategy and defining the core value proposition 
of the product. 
Yipitdata               
Business Operations Associate        
New York, NY 
March 2022-February 2023 
• Identified gaps in the report publishing process based on data analysis and qualitative analysis of product 
team interviews, proposed new best practices and operational changes, and implemented them in the 
new product development process and on existing teams after collaborating with product team 
leadership. This resulted in 50% fewer delayed reports and freed up analyst time. 
• Recognized gaps in the product team training program and created a new curriculum, personally running 
SQL training sessions and workshops, leading to greater SQL proficiency and 20% higher load of client 
requests handled by junior employees. 
• Built the internal reporting DAG, which required extensive ETL on data pulled from REST APIs and 
source tables with Pyspark and SQL, setting up extensive QA, building an Airflow based on complex 
data dependencies, and creating and building consensus on data methodologies, resulting in a significant 
improvement in data reliability, consistency, and the speed of analysis. 
• Established and created data management guidelines, involving the creation of documentation, including 
data dictionaries, ERDs, table naming and schema conventions, changelog management, source data 
documentation and more. 
PennyMac Loan Services             
Data Analyst II          
Westlake Village, CA 
July 2020-February 2022 
• Designed, developed, and maintained high-visibility reports using complex SQL queries and advanced 
Excel for Sales and Marketing used for compensation, strategic planning, and marketing efforts. 
• Scaled quickly on the job to become domain expert for Broker Direct data, entailing acting as the subject 
expert in the development of new reporting and becoming the point of contact to senior management, 
analysts, and the sales team. 
• Automated legacy reporting using Python to reduce time spent sending out reports manually, increasing 
the team's capacity. 
• Created time sensitive ad-hoc Regulatory reports for state examination, often using open queries to 
AWS Athena. 
SKILLS & INTERESTS 
• Skills: Product Strategy, Executive Communication, SQL, Python, Statistical analysis, 
Agile Project Management, Advanced Excel, PowerPoint and Word, Document 
Writing, Quantitative Analysis, Data Analytics, BI, VBA, Tableau, Data Visualization, 
AI/ML, Stakeholder Management, Databricks Unity Catalog, ETL, A/B testing, 
Salesforce 
• Interests: Finance, Technology, Data Analytics, Product, Strategy & Operations
