In Isaac Asimov’s seminal science fiction work, “Foundation”, he put forward a thought experiment that he called “Psychohistory”—an idea that by analyzing the patterns in data and building complex models, one could turn the chaotic, all-encompassing human systems that define civilization into something interpretable, and even predictable. Though perhaps not to the fantastical extent seen in speculative fiction, this idea has proven to be incredibly prescient in the decades since “Foundation” was published; as data has rapidly become central to every facet of life, the social sciences have adapted to put quantitative rigor at the heart of analysis, with economics seeing the greatest transformation, evolving to become the science of causal inference and dynamic systems. These aspects of economics are precisely what have drawn me to the field, and reflect the skills and aspirations that have defined my career thus far; through my undergraduate education in economics and my career working in analytics, strategy and product, I have worked to leverage data to derive meaning from noise, and interpret those insights to meaningfully guide strategic decisions. I believe the MQE program will equip me with the knowledge and practical know-how to help me transition into the next phase of my career and take on roles where I can more directly own strategy in the alternative data industry.
When I first began looking into graduate programs, UCLA’s MQE program stood out to me as an ideal fit for my background. I was especially drawn to the program because of its position at the intersection of economics, data science and finance; working in the alternative data industry, where we publish data driven equity research, forecast KPIs for public companies, and track macroeconomic indicators, I have had the opportunity to work across all three domains. I have managed a product for quantitative investors forecasting and delivering critical financial KPIs for public companies, doubling the number of quant teams using our data and growing ARR by over 80%, and led data-driven projects spanning everything from building internal analytics dashboards to cost attribution models. In doing so, I believe that I’ve become the perfect candidate for the MQE’s flexible, interdisciplinary curriculum; as I’ve explored the courses offered by the program, I’ve found several that would be directly applicable to my work. I found the practical, hands-on approach of courses like the financial forecasting lab especially appealing, both as unique academic experiences and for their direct applicability to my current role building products for quants and hedge funds. 
I am confident that the MQE will be an invaluable experience to me, but just as importantly, I am confident that my skills and background will make me an invaluable addition to the MQE cohort. The program’s emphasis on building a scholastic community was a critical factor making it my sole choice for my graduate study, and I am certain that my experience leveraging data and my background working closely with investment professionals will bring a unique and rich perspective to my cohort.
